
Concept of Algorithm and Data-Structure

Data Structure: 
What actually is data structure?
A method to potentially arrange your data in main memory that increases overall efficiency. 
Example: Arrays, Linked Lists, Stack, Queue, Binary Search Tree (BST), Linked Lists etc. 

Algorithm: 
What is Algorithm? 
Sequence of Steps to solve a given problem. Steps involve utilizing different data structure to achieve the desired objective. 
Example: Ascending sort or Descending sort on arrays etc. 

Memory -> RAM
Storage -> ROM -> HDD/SSD

Database: 
Collection of information in permanent storage(ROM) for:
- Faster Retrieval
- Faster Updation

- For persistent data, data needs to be kept in a database in an organized way, because moment the program is executed the data structures will release the data and data will be removed from RAM.

Data Warehouse: (Majorly used to save the legacy data)
Management of legacy data is nothing but Data Warehousing. How and What all methods to save and preserve the legacy data. 

Big Data: 
Analysis of large chunks of data which can not be done using traditional data processing applications. A dedicated set of tools to work on Bigdata are extensively used in the market. 
For Example: Hadoop(HDFS & MRC clusters), Apache Spark etc.
*Discussion about HDFS and MRC cluster, and relevant tools to work with Bigdata seems to be out of scope for this forum. 

Execution Workflow: 
Memory Layout (Bottom to top) on RAM

Bottom to top:
        
- Code Segment
       |
       V
- Initialized and Unitialized Data (Static & Global Variables)
       |
       V
- Stack
       |
       V
- Heap


Use of Stack:
Holds all the activation records of the functions in the order they've been executed. 

Use of Heap:
On demand dynamic memory requested by the pointer. 

Example of demanding memory from Heap via Stack:
A pointer declared in stack can ask for the dynamic memory from the Heap. 
In this case, Pointer is that container which stores the address of the dynamic memory allocated within the heap. 
Dynamic memory can be requested and released by the program, as per its needs and requirements. 

main.c doesn't run in the code segment, machine code is executed. 

Phenomenon of Memory Leak, Most important concept in heap memory:
While demanding memroy from Heap, it is important that you delete or release the memory after every execution and the scope of that memory is completed. 
Else, if that is not considered while writing the code block, then it'll lead to the Phenomenon of memory leak in the code. 








